

Network Working Group                                     Shirley Browne
Internet-Draft                                               Keith Moore
Expires: 7 January 1996                          University of Tennessee
                                                             7 July 1995


            Issues Concerning URN Assignment and Resolution

                    draft-ietf-uri-urn-issues-00.txt

Status of this Memo

     This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

     Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at
any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference mate-
rial or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

     To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
"1id-abstracts.txt" listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

Abstract

     A number of schemes have been proposed over the past year or so for
assigning and resolving Uniform Resource Names (URNs) and for associat-
ing meta-information with URNs.  The Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)
Working Group is currently faced with the task of evaluating these
schemes.  The schemes all claim to satisfy the functional requirements
for URNs stated in RFC 1737.  A number of additional issues that will be
helpful to consider for purposes of evaluation are listed and discussed
in this draft.  Although this draft is long on questions and short on
answers, it attempts to distill the issues on which consensus (even if
it's agreement to disagree) needs to be reached before progress on stan-
dardization can be made.










Browne/Moore             Expires 7 January 1996                 [Page 1]








URN Issues                                                   7 July 1995


Contents


1  Structure and control of the namespace
   1.1  Lifetime of a name
   1.2  Human meaningfulness of names
   1.3  Flat vs. hierarchical
   1.4  Name assignment and ownership
2  Name resolution issues
   2.1  Responsibility for name resolution
   2.2  Efficiency
   2.3  Resolver location
   2.4  Use of existing Domain Name System
3  Meta-information issues
   3.1  What to include and how to structure it
   3.2  Responsibility and write permission
   3.3  Search capabilities
   3.4  Consistency requirements
4  Support for resource replication
   4.1  Consistency requirements
   4.2  Existing mirroring programs
   4.3  Copyright issues
5  Level of standardization
6  Satisfaction of existing naming needs
7  Copyright and licensing issues
8  Author's address


1  Structure and control of the namespace

1.1  Lifetime of a name

     RFC 1737 states that URNs are to be "persistent" identifiers for
resources.  But there are several kinds of persistence:

     One kind of persistence is the lifetime of the binding between a
URN and the resource it describes, independent of whether the resource
can be accessed.  It is generally understood that once a URN is assigned
to a particular resource, that same URN should not be used to refer to a
completely different resource.  If possible, URNs should chosen in such
a way as to ensure global lifetime uniqueness.

     Another kind of persistence is the lifetime of the meaning that a
human will associate with the human-readable portions of a URN.  The
meanings of ordinary words, places, company names, names of countries,
and even trademarks, change over time and due to unforseen circum-
stances.  This affects the persistence of URNs which contain such human-
readable strings.  If URNs are chosen to be somewhat meaningful to



Browne/Moore             Expires 7 January 1996                 [Page 2]








URN Issues                                                   7 July 1995


humans (in addition to being resolvable by machines), the persistence of
the meaning to humans may become an important design consideration.

     Just as the meaning of names changes for humans, the association of
URN naming authorities (whether human readable or not) with their reso-
lution services and/or access locations can also change.  Even if a par-
ticular naming authority is initially well-correlated with particular
resolution or acesss services for URNs using that naming authority, this
correlation may decrease over time.

     Finally, there is the lifetime for which resolution of URNs and
access of the resources named by URNs are available and easily located.

1.2  Human meaningfulness of names

     If names are human meaningful, then humans will have expectations
that may be not be met and thus may lead to confusion and misinforma-
tion.  On the other hand, opaque resource names would prevent humans
from using their intiution to "resolve" them.

1.3  Flat vs. hierarchical

     All the proposed schemes seem to have agreed on at least a two-
level hierarchy for the namespace, consisting of a division by naming
authority, followed by a division by a string assigned by a particular
naming authority.  The flat vs. hierarchical issue has two aspects:

-    the structure used for name assignment

-    the structure used for name resolution

     It would be possible for the namespace to be flat for either pur-
pose but hierarchical for the other.  Arguments have been put forth that
a flat namespace does not scale for either purpose.

     Note that the use of a hierarchy for name resolution does not
require that the hierarchy be either visible in the name or permanently
fixed once names are assigned.

1.4  Name assignment and ownership

     Who will be allowed to assign names - i.e., how easy will it be to
establish oneself as a naming authority?

2  Name resolution issues






Browne/Moore             Expires 7 January 1996                 [Page 3]








URN Issues                                                   7 July 1995


2.1  Responsibility for name resolution

     Should the naming authority that assigns a name be expected to pro-
vide a service that resolves that name, and if so, for how long?  If
only for a limited time, how should the name be resolved after this
limit expires?  Could resolution be handled by third parties in addition
to, or instead of, the service provided by the naming authority?

2.2  Efficiency

     How much, if any, slower than current URL retrieval can URN resolu-
tion be to still be acceptable?  Is the answer for this question differ-
ent for different users and/or different types of resources?

2.3  Resolver location

     Must it be possible to locate a resolver for a name by doing a
lookup based only on the name?  In the case of hierarchical lookup, is
it possible to not expose the resolution hierarchy as part of the name,
so that the lookup hierarchy can change without changing the names?

2.4  Use of existing Domain Name System

     It has been argued that a name resolution system could be more
quickly and reliably implemented by building on top of the existing
Domain Name System, than by building and deploying a new service.

3  Meta-information issues

3.1  What to include and how to structure it

     Should the URI group decide on a minimal set of attributes that are
required to be included in a catalog record for each URN, or should it
defer to outside groups to set such standards?  Note that a number of
standards and conventions already exist -- US MARC, the geospatial meta-
data standard, and the BIDM for software reuse libraries.

     Some meta-information refers to the conceptual properties of a
resource, some to the properties of a specific representation, and some
to the properties of a specific location.  The different categories tend
to have different update frequency, consistency requirements, and write
permissions.  It would thus be desirable to be able to maintain each of
these types of meta-information separately.

3.2  Responsibility and permissions

     Should a naming authority be responsible for supplying meta-
information for names it assigns, or might third parties do a better job



Browne/Moore             Expires 7 January 1996                 [Page 4]








URN Issues                                                   7 July 1995


(e.g., the OCLC Internet cataloging project)?

     If meta-information is maintained under an IETF-sanctioned mecha-
nism, should others besides the originating naming authority be allowed
to contribute meta-information for resources they don't own?

3.3  Search capabilities

     Should a meta information, or URC, service provide search capabili-
ties?  An alternative would be to permit bulk downloading of catalog
records to third parties who could then provide search services, perhaps
for a fee.

3.4  Consistency requirements

     What are the consistency requirements for multiple copies of meta-
information?

4  Support for resource replication

4.1  Consistency requirements

     What are the consistency requirements for multiple locations for a
resource?

4.2  Existing mirroring programs

     How can name-to-location resolution be merged with current mirror-
ing protocols and programs?  In particular, can the "pull model" used by
most existing mirroring programs be supported effectively?

4.3  Copyright issues

     What are the copyright issues involved in mirroring and caching
resources outside the originating authority?

5  Level of standardization

     It is desirable to allow a handful of name resolution schemes to
co-exist initially so as to experimentally evaluate and compare them
under real operating conditions.  Is it possible to do this while pre-
senting a fairly uniform interface to client programs?  If multiple
schemes are permitted to co-exist initially, one or perhaps a few will
eventually win out.  How might names assigned under defunct schemes be
resolved by surviving schemes?






Browne/Moore             Expires 7 January 1996                 [Page 5]








URN Issues                                                   7 July 1995


6  Satisfaction of existing naming needs

     There has been very little in the way of realistic case studies by
the URI Working Group on how URNs will actually be used.  A number of
groups and projects, such as the Computer Science Technical Report
(CSTR) project, the Reuse Library Interoperability Group (RIG), the OCLC
Internet Cataloging Project, the National HPCC Software Exchange (NHSE),
the distributed Problem Solving Environment (PSE) project at Purdue Uni-
versity, and the WebWorks project at Syracuse University, have real nam-
ing needs.  It would be of value to obtain input from these groups on
exactly how the need and plan to use globally unique names, and on what
their performance and other requirements are.

7  Copyright and licensing issues

     Do copyright and licensing issues need to be considered in the con-
text of name resolution?

8  Authors' addresses

Shirley Browne (browne@cs.utk.edu)
Keith Moore (moore@cs.utk.edu)
University of Tennessee
107 Ayres Hall
Knoxville, TN  37996-1301

Tel:  (615) 974-5886
Fax:  (615) 974-8296























Browne/Moore             Expires 7 January 1996                 [Page 6]
